I am Viacheslav Chornovil. Born in 1937 in
Yerky, Ukraine. I am a Ukrainian politician
and Soviet dissident. As a prominent
Ukrainian dissident in the Soviet Union,
I was arrested multiple times in the 1960s,
1970s, and 1980s for my political views.
I was one of the leaders of Rukh,
the People's Movement of Ukraine,
and editor-in-chief of the newspaper Chas-Time.
One of the most prominent political figures
of the 1980s and 1990s, I paved the way for
contemporary Ukraine to regain its independence.
I enrolled in the University of Kyiv
initially at the College of Philology,
but after the first semester transferred to
the College of Journalism. Due to conflict in
the university, I took a break from studying and
went for a construction project in Mariupol for
a blast furnace and later worked for the Kyiv
Komsomolets. I was a member of the Komsomol of
Ukraine. He graduated in 1960 with honors.
I was originally a journalist in newspaper
and television before I was fired and sentenced
to forced labor due to my dissident activism.
I became one of Ukraine's foremost independence
activists and was an early member of the Ukrainian
Helsinki Group. In 1988, I founded the People's
Movement of Ukraine, the first non-communist
party in Ukraine, and ran unsuccessfully
to be the first president of independent
Ukraine in 1991, losing to Leonid Kravchuk.
In 1994, I became one of President Leonid Kuchma's
foremost critics. My sudden and mysterious death
in a car accident brought an end to my campaign.
I have been remembered as one of the most
significant figures in Ukraine's regaining
independence in 1991. In my life, I documented
many illegal acts by individuals and governments
alike. My courage was always inspired by my desire
to forge a great nation. I hope I gave an example
for the next generations to always be firm and
never tolerate their rights to live in dignity.